I'm going to take notes, but I always say this is better because I have to look at George Georgians here.
That's here, okay?
Where is it comfortable for you when it's on you?
Wherever it's done, my way there, right there, so I can see it.
I ran Sandra Nichols' Found Dead through Nexus.
Of course, nobody watching staff of elves was sending me any reviews, and then I discovered what I could do with Nexus.
And so,
Publication day came and I started every day putting my name up and see what I got under And nothing's being done to advertise the book.
They took out one quarter page ad in the Boston Sunday Globe.
That was it.
I got on the Gordon Liddy show because Gordon remembers the guy who got him out Anyway
Comes July, August, I'm screaming, get something done on this book.
Nothing's happening.
In November, I finally had a meeting with Dom, and I had 36 reviews of Sandra Nicholson's Top Nexus.
32 of them were favorable.
Over 20 of them were very favorable.
There was this big confrontation down there, because I might want to play two of them.
Jack McCray, Larchin, steps out of her office and asked if she might come along, and I said, sure.
Then when I finished, Norman said, so if I have it right, George, you're saying that our publicity and marketing people talk about it.
That's a quote, verbatim.
And I said, yeah.
He said, well, I can promise you that if you're still with us when your next book comes out, this won't happen again.
And sure enough when gravity came out, it didn't.
Nothing happened with gravity.
It was a piece of treachery, that's all.
The guy's word is not to be believed.
And he destroyed a very nice scum.
I'm going to tell you something.
So tell me, George, you're writing about a sports agent.
So you've written about politicians?
That's not a redundancy.
So why don't you tell me... Well, from time to time, instead of advancing the cause of great art in the United States, I want to have a little fun.
And that's what this book was intended to be, some fun.
I started it with...
Frank play heading into the greatest state of The greatest state of Alex drew it who had been murdered And I better fact I pretty much finished the whole story and then I decided that I
Alex really needed to be better known.
Take some of this woman.
I won't need all of that.
And so I wrote part one.
And then segued into part two after Alex has been done it.
But by then you know it.
And as I say, this is not intended to be a capitalist statement on the human condition.
This is intended to be some fun.
Good read on an airplane.
Plus an evening at home.
The people I've talked to before it was printed told me, with one accord, it's a good read.
And I must say that not all of my books attend that.
I'm a fairly demanding author.
I regard reading as a participatory sport.
And a lot of readers don't like to participate.
Is this a participatory novel?
I mean?
Does this one break that particular mold?
Oh, no, no.
Let's face it.
The purpose of fiction is to entertain.
And when we lose sight of that, we get bad books.
I'm not going to mention any authors by name of those two or three list makers out there who write great long books full of
catalog content.
And they're not fiction.
All they are is evidence that the author can remember what sort of goods and services were available in the mid-1950s and 1960s and 1970s in America.
And nothing really
develops in the characters that are presented as people on a stage surrounded by these objects.
The agent, just as every other one of my books, requires the reader to get involved.
It's been described as a whodunit, but I don't really think it is that.
Well, you know pretty early who did it.
But the question is why.
It's a whodunit.
And that's what Frank Clay has to figure out.
Is it important for us to detest the deceased?
Oh no, quite unnecessary.
The guy is a scoundrel and a ruffian, but he's a glamorous one.
Like the one in the White House, a rather lovable scoundrel and ruffian.
Only not on a scale.
He's completely amoral.
He's treacherous.
And he's involved with pro athletes, big money, sex, drugs.
And murder, what more can you ask?
My characters do that.
It's a funny thing.
No reader that I know of has ever accused me of committing the acts that some of my characters have committed, such as murder, rape, savage assault and battery, mayhem, bank robbery.
But I'm regularly held responsible for my character's views on race, sex, gender, age, and they're often politically incorrect.
But I mean, you seem to deal with all of those subjects at this point.
I try to.
If any stone is left unturned, it was unintentional, I can assure you.
More than one person has told me what my novels are, all of them.
are stories about how things work.
And the agent is that, par excellence.
It is how the pro sports system in the 1990s, particularly in the late 1990s, now works.
And it's a difference in kind from the way that pro sports worked when I was a boy, which would be 40 years ago, 50 years ago.
The games that we watched then,
have become spectacle stage, principally for TV.
And the consequence of it is that the attachment that I think people are able to feel for their pro teams now is more factitious than anything else.
Because the team is an abstract.
The people in Atlanta who were devastated, and the people who were so exhilarated in Denver
The police had to use tear gas on them.
I'm not really rooting for the kind of team, the kind of joint enterprise that I and my contemporaries and my parents, my father and my grandfather before me, the kind of
community identity that they had with the Red Sox.
Because today's Red Sox are not going to be what yesterday's Red Sox were.
Mo Vaughan has left.
If they get another superstar, he'll be different.
And we all know they'll all leave as soon as ever they can for more money or stay if they can get more money doing that.
It was at least the illusion of a shared objective and a shared camaraderie with people we never met when we followed sports in the 40s and the 50s and the 60s.
It's not there anymore.
It's about money now.
Do you see this as a crime novel?
As a what?
A crime novel.
Yes, this is a crime novel.
So this is a return to your loose, isn't it?
No, because I don't think Eddie Coyle was a crime novel.
I think the only other crime novel I've written was The Mandeville Challenge, which significantly for Cremar,
shared concern for the book publishing industry, sold out the first edition, the first printing between the time of publication in June and the royalty statements in October.
And nobody at all took this aside.
They had to print some more.
As soon as they got their bait back, they stopped.
I discovered in October, because I wasn't entitled to any money, because what you earn in the summer is a payable until April, which usually arrives in May.
Therefore, I was not aware until the October after the Vanderbilt talent was printed and published in the spring, intended as a beach book.
that, in fact, had earned back its advance already.
So people who consider you or describe you as a crime writer, they've got it wrong.
Not with this book.
Not with this book, but I'm talking about over the arc of career.
Sure.
Crime novels are books about crime, and that's what this book is.
Many of my characters in the other books commit crimes.
but the stories are about them.
This thing is linear.
It has one objective, and it proceeds at the beginning, through the middle to the end of that objective, which is to find out first, why anyone would want to kill Alex Druitt, and then secondly, who caused them to derive that motive.
Whereas the other books,
I defy you to describe change of gravity in one sentence like that.
Change of gravity is about a change in the way the political system works.
And one of great moments in magnitude that occurred between the time that Danny Hilliard first started running for office
and the time when the story took place in 1996-7.
You know, we've often heard it said that Boston is a city where drink is mad at sports, politics, and revenge.
Yes.
And most of my books are about all of those subjects.
And would you say that you try to reflect this Boston persona?
Absolutely.
I have, you know now who said it, but I agree with you.
I'm not sure I ever would have written the kind of novels I'd written.
I have written.
If I had lived most of my life in any other synagogue.
Because everything is so beautifully calibrated here.
the balance of those three interests.
One review of the agent is composed by a guy who was the editor of a paper, one of the alternate newspapers, when I was the Globe's literary critic, well, the journalism critic.
And he explained in his review that I made a great deal of fun out of his newspaper.
And then he explained further that when I wrote The Rat on Fire,
I preempted the much better novel he would have written about arson for hire.
I don't know how I did that, but there you go.
And finally, he explained why those were the reasons why he disliked The Agent.
Follow that, if you will.
I can reduce it for you if you like.
It's called Envy.
But it's Boston.
Maybe I'm wrong, but is this your first sports book?
Well, of course, I wrote a nonfiction memoir, The Progress of the Seasons, about the way my father and my grandfather and I thought about the Red Sox.
And sports-related novels.
No, Victories was about a retired Red Sox relief pitcher.
I've used sports characters before, and Trust was about a guy who'd gone to jail for fixing basketball games when he played.
So you found it.
Yeah.
How old are you now, George?
59.
I'll be 56 in a few months.
I'm trying to convince myself that a cataract is a sign of late adolescence.
I'm having trouble.
Well, I used to have perfect eyesight.
Each year, the glasses get stronger.
You had it in one eye?
Red eye.
I'm told I have another candidate in the left eye, but I'm going to deal with this one first, and soon.
1972 is, well, here we are approaching 27 years, right?
Correct.
Easily, easily.
Oh, they're never going to shut me up.
It'll take six guys in a long black car to do that.
But as a result of getting mauled in 97 by my former publishers,
I thought for quite a while that maybe my publishing career was over, that I was going to be dependent on the kindness of strangers, like Planck DuBois, that I'd be traveling as a mendicant author from university press to university press, trying to persuade them to publish my stuff.
I didn't look forward to it.
Authors need print.
I mean, you really weren't fearful that you would be a publisher.
Yes, I was.
I was fearful that I would not find a commercial book.
I was terrified.
It would not be too much to say that I was in despair over it.
You bet 28 books?
That in this market that we have today is not an advantage, it's a handicap.
I had published 28 books, and I haven't been on the bestseller list of the New York Times since 1974.
Today, the publishers are looking for the big score.
They're not interested in the Midwest author anymore.
One knowledgeable fellow about American publishing said that I ought to tell my students at Boston University that their prospects are these.
If they can manage to get a book accepted, their publisher will probably put out two more, seeing if they can write a bestseller.
And if they count, they'll double them.
Well, the late Joe Fox, who dumped me from Random House, is the guy
He told John Irving that he should take the world according to Garth to another house, because he didn't see that they published four of his books.
Good.
And I don't think, you know, I wasn't nearly as dramatic an example, but he tossed me off my ass and said that your book won't sell 3,000 copies.
Who shall he ever turn down the fence of Eddie Coyle on the ground?
You remember these things, don't you?
You know, of all the... This is immodest to say, but it's true.
Of all the hundreds of reviews that I've had that have been favorable, and some of them have been extremely favorable and I haven't framed in my house, the ones I remember best are the stinkers, the ad pressers, the ones in which the reviewer tells the reader of the review how much better his book would be if only he had written it.
The ones that take you to task for what your characters did or said.
And in my case, the ones that say that, of course, it's obvious I don't actually make this stuff up, I steal it on a grand jury transcript.
You must have a shelf at home of about 29 books up there, all the foreign editions.
Two shelves.
It's getting crowded there.
I've got all my magazines, or most of my magazine publications up there.
I've got the doctoral dissertations written on my stuff.
I'm as vain as an angel.
That's my life there.
Do you see it as an art?
As an archive?
No, an archive.
Your career, can you follow it?
Can you trace how these PhD candidates perceive your career?
I have the same reaction to the PhD candidates and the critical essays in the scholarly magazines that I have for the newspaper critics.
I am again and again astonished at what conclusions readers form for my books.
Of course, I encourage that, because I don't make judgments on my characters.
And I don't tell you what I think the events mean.
And I don't establish hierarchies of moral value.
That's your job.
And there was one guy in one newspaper.
I don't know what it was.
I think it was the Free Press, but it might have been the news in Detroit.
When Cogan's trade came out, at a reprint of your own,
1974.
Do you recall Jackie Cogan as a contract hitman for the Mafia?
This guy said that this was clearly, this book was clearly a Christ allegory, with Jackie Cogan as Christ, expiating sin by death.
And that was different from the Christ story that I heard, which Christ expiated sin with his own death.
Not with the death of the sinner.
That was just the most egregious example.
Each time out, are you looking for... What are you looking for?
What are you trying to accomplish each time out?
I want to find out how the story ends.
I begin at the beginning and I write until I reach the end.
Sometimes I keep on writing after I reach the end and my editor has to say, we're not going to go to this 15th chapter.
You continue to be justly celebrated for your dialogue.
I feel, however, in this book, you really have structured the narrative a little bit more along, perhaps, traditional lines.
Yeah.
This book is much more overtly plotted.
It was really something of a problem book, a state of problem and solve it.
I never do that.
I've only done that in one other occasion, and that was with the man that will tell it.
But it's not, in passing, a story about the evolution of politics in America since World War II, and it's not a story about the evolution of media in America since World War II, or maybe more likely since the Vietnam War.
disquisition on a history of moral values and changes and the consequences of those changes in America since World War II.
It is not what John O'Hara said, the history of times, only in quite anecdotal form.
This one is a story about a problem to be solved and the guy who solves it and the man whose murder was the cause of the problem.
Did you start with the character or what was the concept of the story?
Concept.
I invented the character to go with it.
And I invented Alex Druin as I had never before.
Well, yes, I have in the Mandible Tower.
I invented the character of Alex Druin with the deliberate intention of making him to be a fascinating rogue.
And the reviewers have been kind enough to say I succeeded so well I shouldn't have killed him.
But it was essential.
He had to die.
I deliberately did not see Jerry Maguire until I finished the agent.
I didn't see Jerry Maguire until February 21st, 1998.
And the reason I know that is because when I returned it the next day, as I crossed an intersection, my beautiful BMW got torn.
No kidding.
It was a 635 CSI in 1987 with 30,000 miles on it that I bought in 1996.
The car's been out of production now since 1989.
It broke my hat.
I can see it.
It was a beautiful automobile.
It also broke a couple of ribs.
So on that score, I'm not entirely upset about that.
I was turning left in the intersection.
A guy came out of the hill, up the hill.
He wasn't looking where he was going.
He was going too fast to hit me.
The next book is done.
The working title now is McKeach, End of Day.
McKeach, M-C capital K-E-A-C-H, The End of Day.
That's about going back to my roots.
Boston gangsters.
And the twilight of their era.
Or the era of the gangsters that I knew in.
That world is coming from a close.
What's replacing it?
He's no way near as civilized.
You've got the gangbangs now.
All kinds of wild gunplay.
But in the days of the mob, when I started interviewing him, he was persecuting him.
How finished?
Back in the late 60s.
There were rules.
He only shot somebody because he'd done something to punish him.
And they shot him.
They didn't shoot his wife and his wife.
They didn't shoot his wife and his daughters.
Occasionally, they had to shoot a girlfriend who was present when they were shooting him.
Because, of course, you didn't want to leave her around.
You know, luck on the draw.
Death knell, I think.
And I don't mean this in any life-handed sort of fashion.
It was when Assistant Attorney General Paul McLaughlin got gunned down in West Roxbury on his way home.
At the train station?
Yeah, at the train station.
I used that in the next novel.
This is something that's so untoward.
You never kill the prosecutor.
And get away with it, too.
So far, they claim they've got the guy, but they don't have evidence to prove it.
They've got him on something else that he's never going to see the latter day on.
Was it a kid?
Yeah, a 15-year-old.
Was it him they were looking for?
He had been, the DAG has obtained a case against him, got him indicted.
And he, it was his first major offense.
He and another pal.
For shooting some other guy.
So they really did target this guy?
Well, the judge released him on bail.
You know, you wonder how the judge can find that there's no substantial risk that this man will be a danger to society if he's released.
When he's charged with murder.
So, you know, these guys have the attention.
They have no concept of time.
in extension.
They have only a concept of time as it is right now.
And his case was coming out to be tried by McLaughlin.
And so in his mind, killing McLaughlin would prevent his convictions.
All it did was prevent McLaughlin from trying the case.
The case is still going to be tried.
The underlying case, I think it has been tried.
As a matter of fact, he was convicted.
And he's going to be in.
The only time he's going to see the sun is when he's in the exercise yard, unless we get some other softy in there for governor who pardoned him.
But that was just unheard of when I was chasing him out.
I would get calls from informers, which I always thought should be informers, but there you go.
I would be the poor man, right?
They were talking to me.
I would get calls when I had been to the north end for dinner.
I just want coffee for me.
They're asking me how I like the veal.
I had a plate on my Camaro.
It was at U.S.
security's office.
It was supposedly
made you invisible from speed traps to state troopers.
You kind of used a scene like that in here, too.
Yeah.
And there was one night after I tried a murder case that I lost, and it wasn't my fault, truly, because I had told the prosecutor to obtain the indictment, not to indict it.
We didn't have the evidence.
After the trial, the case had been severed.
There were three men involved.
And I got the two remaining after the first guy had been tried to quit it.
And after the trial was over, the first guy's brother came up to me outside the courthouse and said, you tried a good case, kid.
You tried my brother, you would have gotten him.
So a year goes by, and sort of a ritual I had with friends
We're celebrating an anniversary down in Providence where he lives.
He and his wife and I and mine.
And it was my turn to pick up the check.
And there wasn't any check.
This is Dr. Camille's Roman Gardens.
And I said to the waiter, but he needs to be taken care of.
And the waiter said, over there.
And there was the guy's brother.
These gangbangers don't do that.
There's an element of respect here, too, isn't there?
There's an element of respect here that's... Respetata, please.
Yes.
It's almost a chivalry.
War.
But it was, everybody knew what the rules were.
I had one defendant who was kind enough to kill himself.
He got all loaded up on booze and pills one New Year's Eve and hit the wall of the Central Lattery in Boston.
Central Lattery underpest.
Who engaged me in a conversation
during a free trial appearance up in Salem.
He said, nice looking wife you got.
Nice house.
Good kids, huh?
Dog.
So I went to my investigators and I told them what Frankie had said.
And they put the word out on the street.
Anything, anything happens to Higgins or his family.
And all you guys are coming in every day for pictures.
Every day within a round job.
Every single day, pictures and prints.
Nothing happened.
He was off the reservation.
There isn't any reservation, though.
Unfortunately, you look at this, how about this little eight-year-old boy down in Connecticut?
Who's going to be a witness.
And the guy who shot him.
Where's the system that's supposed to be?
Just because the mother says we don't want protection, so that's sufficient.
It's pretty hard to give protection, but of course the trouble is.
There's no rule that says you can't surveil somebody who's not in custody and not under suspicion of anything.
There's no rule that says the police can't provide extra protection for a citizen even though the citizen doesn't want it.
I would think so.
That to me is one of the most heartbreaking stories.
It certainly is.
I've seen a sweet little kid who's doing the right thing.
Yeah.
Strag.
Where's the system?
I mean, the guy is, forget him, but... But you see, there's the pattern again.
The person who pulled off that murder of that little boy...
doesn't see that there will be a prosecution for that murder, too, because somebody will talk for that one.
Especially if somebody starts putting money up for this, too.
I'm surprised Bill Cosby hasn't come up with $100,000 or something.
Or if somebody else, somebody who knows who did it and has probative evidence admissible in court gets his own tail in a narrow crack and encounters either a cop or a prosecutor, doesn't matter which guy, with a thumb stroke and start in on him.
That's how sometimes these things are?
Well, it's usually the only way.
Do you miss that stuff?
Yes.
Sure I do.
I loved it.
And how about the private law practice?
That's been history for some time.
I went to Joe Toro's unveiling of his portrait last Friday in the federal court.
He's completed his term as chief judge.
And I was one of Joe's assistants when he was U.S.
attorney.
And the courtroom was full of guys I tried against.
guys I worked with and for, and I rather envy them.
But when I told them this, they said with one accord, don't.
He said, it's changed so much now.
We'll drive you nuts.
When I was prosecuting, if one lawyer lied to another once, that was the end of it.
If I had arraign your client court, since I know you, we've tried cases before, your word is good, you would ask the judge for 20 days to file special motions, which is a month.
And I would say no objections.
And in due course, you would file motions to disclose all evidence, exculpatory motions to disclose all scientific evidence, names of witnesses, all scientific reports, so on prior to the night.
And I would not object to any of them at the hearing date.
So there wouldn't be a hearing date.
The fact of the matter is, after the arraignment, on that day, I would say to you, come on down to the office and I'll give you the file.
And anything you wanted in it, you could copy.
Unless it was the name of a confidential foreman.
I couldn't give you that, because he'd been wiped out, maybe.
You wouldn't do it, but your client might.
But I would give you essentially what was my case, and say, show me how you're going to beat me.
And if you could find a way, then you would say, I think I can beat you.
You wouldn't necessarily tell me how you're going to do it.
We might just disagree on these.
effect on the jury of a given piece of testimony or evidence.
But if you agreed that there wasn't any way to beat the case, and your client was sensible, which not all clients are, then the case would end in a play.
And he'd end up getting less time than he would have gotten if he'd gone to trial and gotten convicted.
Now, often the client was intractable, and he wouldn't take his lawyers' considered opinion that the better thing to do would be plea.
He would insist on a trial in the theory that
He had nothing to lose.
You know, if you've got a record out to hear, why not take a shot?
There's logic in that.
Yeah.
And so we'd try the case, and you'd get convicted and get the maximum.
But if I had a case involving a gentleman who knew, and I suspected that he knew, who killed that little boy, I would sketch him.
I would invite him into the office.
He'd bring his lawyer with him if he wanted to.
Most of them did.
I would tell him exactly what was going to happen to him.
Unless he told me what I wanted to know.
And that would be his choice.
The question is, is he more afraid of me than he is of the guys who will kill him if he does what I want him to do?
Quite often they were more afraid of the guys who would kill him.
Who are the guys who would kill him?
Well, for one thing, the guy who killed the little boy.
He's already murdered one witness, or one of his pals.
But that's really what it comes down to, the balance of terror.
That's great.
That wouldn't be a bad title, you know.
Now that I've said it, I think you're right.
Don't forget it.
I'll write it down right now, being over 40.
Maybe I changed the key to your balance.
It's not bad, is it?
It's very good.
It's yours.
This will be one of those affinity stories that goes into the PhD students of the future.
I can come up with a good title for everybody except myself.
That is a great title.
It was originally used when I first saw it.
to describe the mutual assured destruction capabilities of the U.S.
and Soviet Union.
But I've never seen it as a balance of mad, you know, mutual assured destruction.
But it was called a balance of terror.
That's nice.
I'm going to do it.
Now that, you can do a LexNet search on it.
Or you can do a Harvard search on it.
I'll do LexNet.
I'll do a title search.
Well, the choice of enemies had been used before.
I used it.
So what?
Exactly.
And it hasn't been used McKeach, a balance of terror, or the balance of terror.
I like it.
There was a discourse between two cops in the story.
One of them was a PD Boston superintendent, and the other one's an MSP detective lieutenant inspector.
And that's
That's what they use the balance of terrorists the gist of the discussion they have I like that Alex is a bibliophile.
Oh, yeah He is so respects his books.
He doesn't even open No, I had I do know of a person who furnished his home with a library
It's a brand bookstore in New York.
They sell them by the foot, don't they?
She sells them and she rents them by the foot.
Rents them?
She rents them.
To soap operas, to parties, to, you know, you want Levin Bond?
No, I wrote about it.
I've written about it.
In fact, I might even just put it in a new book.
Let's see.
I think I've got my lead here.
I think the lead is, you know, revenge, politics, and sports.
You basically covered them all.
Well, the Boston Three, of course, predictably, given the chance in this heritage of this town, the Boston Three really
And it would be at least a quartet in any other city, but sex would be included too.
In Boston, we have no sex, just guilt without sex.
Why is that, would you say?
Well, it's unpopular.
For my readers in Toledo and Eugene, I'm in Salt Lake City.
I think it was Chesterton who said that, Bill O'Shaw, I believe, who said that the
Pleasure is momentary, the position is ridiculous, and the expense is enormous.
That's why.
And this is Boston.
Fiction is still the main event.
Well, I don't know.
I've been looking for a nonfiction project.
I said to my new embers last spring that when I finished the Y2K book, which is not about Y2K,
I had hoped to get a non-fiction project.
Well, what I was dandling was the idea of doing something that Peter Gathers in that library of contemporary thought.
That's enough, that's enough.
Because it's short, and it pays very nicely, and I thought it would be a good change of pace.
But none of the ideas that I had suggested to him has piqued his interest, and the one idea that he proposed to me, I didn't like.
So this morning I started another one of those, what would probably turn out to be a 68,000 word short story that I won't be able to sell anyway.
Teaching, you've been teaching at BU now for... Since 88.
88, I'd love to say 10 years.
This is my 11th.
I was on medical leave last year.
You're enjoying it still?
I love it.
And the classes this year are both of them full of pistols.
And are the graduate courses, undergraduate courses?
EN 305 is the evening seminar, and that is eclectic.
It draws from across the university and from people who are simply walk-ons off campus.
And 405 is the afternoon course, and that's generally upperclassmen.
But I have had from time to time a graduate student.
That is the more demanding of the two seminars.
How's the writing?
Good?
It's surprisingly good.
The commonplace that you hear about it is they only know six stories.
How I lost my virginity.
How I tried to and failed.
Why I hate my mother, why I hate my father, old man dying, old woman back.
That hasn't been the case.
A couple of years ago, there was a woman who set up a truly, to me, novel method of getting
considerable use out of poisonous snakes.
And just last week, one of my students in the afternoon session had a story about a woman who had married Henry Richards and loved Henry.
Loved him so passionately that when each of their three boys was born, they named him Henry.
Just like George Foreman.
But it was more than a takeoff on George Foreman.
I don't know if you'd ever heard of George Foreman.
It was an excellent white trash story.
And it involved real-life characters.
One of them, well, the victim of the story, who he was killed, was an organizer for Ann Richards in her campaign for governor of Texas.
So it was, without any exaggeration, about real people and irrational behavior.
It was an excellent story, and I told her to take out the section number.
She had named each section, and she changed voices, changed points of view, which was all right, because it was that kind of story.
These quick cuts, as they'd say in Hollywood.
I told her, take those...
look those roman numerals out of there just leave two dashes two lines of space between each section they'll get it and start sending it out getting beaten up like all the other aspirin aspiring writers you know as you talk about this cuts do you see do you see these novels visually do you consider no i hear them and maybe that hurts you with the movies not maybe that hurts me with the movies because john frankenheimer said to me once you've got to learn to write five pages
in which no character art is more than 20 words.
That's like telling me I can't write.
Because my characters tell the stories.
There is one screenwriter, Joel Oliansky, who has done some absolutely magical adaptations, screen adaptations of the Jerry Kennedy books, two of them.
But it's been hard to sell them.
I think there's going to be a
New Birth of Freedom for people who write the kind of novels that I wrote.
I think probably Craig Noble would be included in this group.
I think probably Ward just will be included in it.
I would bank money on it that John Updike is already getting for it.
But we go to six X channels, what we've got now.
They will be compelled, some of them, to allocate their resources and target their programming to the kind of people
You'll read books by John Updike and Craig Nova and George Higgins and Nick Besman.
Well, they will.
They'll have to.
Your chances are probably better than mine are because you write nonfiction.
A&E and Bravo lap that stuff up.
And they'll have to do it.
And they'll have to tap.
There's an audience there that is currently being uncircised.
And that is the people over 45.
who aren't going to be buying dishes, who aren't going to be buying houses, who aren't going to be buying furniture, because we've got all that shit, appliances.
But we don't have Cadillacs that never wear out.
We don't have BMWs that never wear out.
The goods that we have that are made by such people as automobile manufacturers and golf club manufacturers, we tend to replace sometimes with the computers, sometimes before they wear out.
just because there's something better in the market, and we have the disposable income.
And they're going to start tailoring television for us.
If you tune in those golf shows on Saturday afternoons this month, lovely for a nap on the couch.
Absolutely wonderful.
Very relaxing.
Note who's advertising.
Carries them.
Porsche?
BMW, Saab, Cadillac, Lincoln?
Why?
They know who's watching.
Look at the evening news, you know, of hemorrhoids.
Yeah, gas teeth.
It's true, my kids, I watch, I never miss the news, and my younger daughter says, why is it that the news and demographics tell us who watches the news, oh, it's like me.
It's true, isn't it?
It is, of course it is.
You know, farts like the news.
They're going to have to start turning out television for us.
And when they do, I figure somebody's going to need product.
It's not going to be elevated and dignified and great.
Oh, will they pay us for it?
You bet your ass they will.
That's the question that I have.
God, I hope I live to see it.
Oh, you will.
It's going to have it fairly soon.
HDTV is coming in faster than they predicted.
So I hope I can make enough an HDTV to enable me to buy an HDTV.
If you want to watch it.
You know, I keep saying content is necessary.
They keep giving us this extraordinary machine that has remarkable... Newton Minow is still right.
He's more right than ever.
I find that my ability to absorb print by...
10 o'clock is pretty much exhausted for the day.
I've been either writing or reading all day long at that point, or else I've been radiating at Boston University.
But I don't want to think about it anymore.
I want to be entertained.
And the agent will do that for you.
A change of gravity, a choice of enemies, victories.
The first rank stuff, don't put this in the article, please.
My first rank stuff will not entertain you.
After 10 o'clock, if you feel tight, put it down.
But the agent, you'll finish by 10.
Because it doesn't require much thought.
I want something like that in front of me, with pictures.
And I'll even tolerate advertising.
I want NYPD Blue, and I don't want a goddamn rerun, which is what's on tonight.
I want a new one.
I remember those stories.
And the fact that they can get away with those reruns indicates to you how much attention people actually pay to this guy.
This is in Casablanca they're rerunning.
Or Gone with the Wind.